OSDOCS-5243 Adding CLI Manager docs (#81448)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cli-manager-adding-plugin-yaml.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/cli_manager/cli-manager-using.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cli-manager-adding-plugin-yamls_{context}"]
= Adding plugins to the {cli-manager} with YAML files

.Prerequisites

* The {cli-manager} is installed.
* You are using {product-title} 4.17 or later.
* You are logged in to {product-title} as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} web console.

. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Select the *{cli-manager}* from the list.

> . Select the *CLI Plugin* tab.

Reviewer: Before that I think `CliManager` resource should be created to run cli-manager operand. Am I right @kasturinarra ?

Reviewer 2: @ardaguclu you are right, cli-manager operand needs to be created. @cbippley could you please help add that info ? thanks !!

. Click *Create Plugin*.

. Enter the YAML file with the information for the plugin you are installing in the text box. See the example YAML file below.
+
.Example YAML file to add a plugin
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Plugin
metadata:
  name: <plugin_name>
spec:
  shortDescription: short description of the <plugin_name>
  description: long description of the <plugin_name>
  version: <version> <1>
  caveats: <2>
  homepage: <plugin_homepage>
  platforms:
  - platform: <platform> <3>
    image: <plugin_image>
    imagePullSecret: <4>
    files:
    - from: <plugin_file_path>
----
<1> Version must be in v0.0.0 format.
<2> This field is optional.

> <3> Linux/amd64 # Linux/arm64, darwin/arm64, windows/amd64, or another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> linux/amd64 # linux/arm64, darwin/arm64, windows/amd64, or another.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should mention this or not.

We made a change in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43549. For darwin and windows compatible binaries, cli-manager will extract them from linux/amd64 image (if the image is manifestlist). Because there is no darwin or windows base images anyway.

WDYT @kasturinarra ?

Reviewer 2: @ardaguclu  we can mention once i finish testing may be ? Also could we check with gaurav as well to see what he thinks ?

Reviewer: > We made a change in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43549. For darwin and windows compatible binaries, cli-manager will extract them from linux/amd64 image (if the image is manifestlist). Because there is no darwin or windows base images anyway.

@cbippley please ignore this comment as well.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/cli_manager/cli-manager-install.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cli-manager-adding-plugin-yamls_{context}"]
= Adding plugins to the {cli-manager} with YAML files

> You can add or update a CLI plugin to the {cli-manager} using the Form View or YAML View.

Author: @ardaguclu @kasturinarra Would you get an error if you used the same procedure to update the plugin? Or would it simply overwrite the initial plugin?

[NOTE]
====
If you use the form view, add the information for the CLI plugin into the required fields, which are *Name*, *Platforms (bin, from)*, *Files*, *Image*, *ImagePullSecret*, *Platform*, *Short description*, *Version*, and *Homepage*. Then click *Create* to add the CLI plugin.
====

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to {product-title} as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* The {cli-manager} is installed.
* The CliManager operand has been created.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} web console.

. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Select the *{cli-manager}* from the list.

. Select the *CLI Plugin* tab.

. Click *Create Plugin*.

. Enter the YAML file with the information for the plugin you are installing in the text box. See the example YAML file below.
+
.Example YAML file to add a plugin

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Plugin
metadata:
  name: <plugin_name>
spec:

>   shortDescription: short description of the <plugin_name>

Reviewer 3: The whole replaceable text should go inside the angle brackets. Something like:

```suggestion
  shortDescription: <short_description_for_plugin_name>
```

>   description: long description of the <plugin_name>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  description: <long_description_for_plugin_name>
```

  version: <version> <1>
  caveats: <2>
  homepage: <plugin_homepage>
  platforms:
  - platform: <platform> <3>
    image: <plugin_image>
    imagePullSecret: <4>
    files:
    - from: <plugin_file_path>
----
<1> Version must be in v0.0.0 format.

> <2> This field is optional.

Reviewer 3: Can you give some detail on what this field is for? And is it just text information or something?

And you can start it with the prefix "Optional: <description>"

> <3> Add the architecture for your system. Ex. Linux/amd64, darwin/arm64, windows/amd64, or another architecture.

Reviewer 3: Also, just checking on if it's correct for "Linux" to be capitalized when none of the others are?

```suggestion
<3> Add the architecture for your system. For example, `Linux/amd64`, `darwin/arm64`, `windows/amd64`, or another architecture.
```

. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Select the *{cli-manager}* from the list.

. Select the *CLI Plugin* tab.

. Click *Create Plugin*.

. Enter the YAML file with the information for the plugin you are installing in the text box. See the example YAML file below.
+
.Example YAML file to add a plugin

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Plugin
metadata:
  name: <plugin_name> <1>
spec:
  shortDescription: <short_description_of_the_plugin_name>
  description: <long_description_of_the_plugin_name>
  version: <version> <2>
  caveats: <3>
  homepage: <plugin_homepage>
  platforms:
  - platform: <platform> <4>
    image: <plugin_image>
    imagePullSecret: <5>
    bin: <plugin_name>
    files:
    - from: <plugin_file_path>
----
<1> The name of the plugin you will use in commands.
<2> Version must be in v0.0.0 format.
<3> Optional: fill in what this is once kasturi tells me.
<4> Add the architecture for your system. Ex. `linux/amd64`, `darwin/arm64`, `windows/amd64`, or another architecture.
<5> Optional: If the registry is not public, add a pull secret to access your plugin image.

. Click *Save*.

> . Enter the command `oc krew list` to see if the plugin is listed and has been added successfully.

Reviewer 3: You'll want to add a code block below for the command instead of saying it here in the step. Here you could say something like, "Verify that the plugin has been added successfully by running the following command" or something similar.

You could also move this to a verification section

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/cli_manager/cli-manager-install.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cli-manager-adding-plugin-yamls_{context}"]
= Adding plugins to the {cli-manager} with YAML files

You can add a CLI plugin to the {cli-manager} using the Form View or YAML View.

[NOTE]
====
If you use the form view, add the information for the CLI plugin into the required fields, which are *Name*, *Platforms*, *Files*, *Image*, *Platform*, *Short description*, and *Version*. Then click *Create* to add the CLI plugin.

> ====

Reviewer 2: @cbippley May be adding as below would make it more clear i believe, WDYT ? 
Name,  platforms (bin, from), image, ImagePullSecret, platform, CA (in case of disconnected), Short description, version & homepage.

Author: These are all required? They are not all marked as such in the web console.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to {product-title} as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* The {cli-manager} is installed.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} web console.

. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Select the *{cli-manager}* from the list.

. Select the *CLI Plugin* tab.

. Click *Create Plugin*.

. Enter the YAML file with the information for the plugin you are installing in the text box. See the example YAML file below.
+
.Example YAML file to add a plugin

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Plugin
metadata:
  name: <plugin_name>
spec:
  shortDescription: short description of the <plugin_name>
  description: long description of the <plugin_name>
  version: <version> <1>
  caveats: <2>
  homepage: <plugin_homepage>
  platforms:
  - platform: <platform> <3>
    image: <plugin_image>
    imagePullSecret: <4>
    files:

>     - from: <plugin_file_path>

Author: Can you tell me where that `bin` should go? @kasturinarra

>     - from: <plugin_file_path>

Reviewer 3: It's hard to tell from the test case because the indentation is off a bit https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/OSE/workitem?id=OCP-75289

But if I'm interpreting it right this could go above `files`. Like below (per the test case the plugin name in the `name` field is the same as this field, but someone else can confirm if that's true or not. Also should add a callout for this one providing details / this information if that's true.

```
    imagePullSecret: <4>
    bin: <plugin_name> <5>
    files:
    - from: <plugin_file_path>
```

I would also consider adding some more callouts for a few of the other replaceable values. Short and long description should be clear enough, but there are probably some details that would be useful for the others. 

Like, which field, bin or name, is what you use to call the plugin once it's installed (like a plugin name of `oc-mirror` would use the command `oc mirror` to call it once it's been installed)? The test case uses oc-mirror for both. And does that field have to start with the "oc-\*" or "kubectl-\*" prefix like we say when writing CLI plugins [1]? If so, we should mention that.

This would all be good info to clarify if @kasturinarra or @ardaguclu could confirm.

[1] https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/cli_reference/openshift_cli/extending-cli-plugins.html#cli-writing-plugins_cli-extend-plugins

----
<1> Version must be in v0.0.0 format.
<2> This field is optional.
<3> Add the architecture for your system. Ex. Linux/amd64, darwin/arm64, windows/amd64, or another architecture.

> <4> This field is for adding a pull secret to access your plugin image and is optional.

Reviewer 2: @cbippley do not think this is optional, this is a mandatory parameter.

Author: Are y'all talking about #2 or #4?

Reviewer 3: @cbippley the 4th callout. Perhaps could say something like:

```suggestion
<4> Optional: If the registry is not public, add a pull secret to access your plugin image.
```

Reviewer 2: @cbippley agree with what andrea is saying here.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/cli_manager/cli-manager-install.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cli-manager-adding-plugin-yamls_{context}"]
= Adding a plugin to the {cli-manager}

> You can add or update a CLI plugin to the {cli-manager} using the YAML View.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can add or update a CLI plugin to the {cli-manager} by using the YAML View.
```
See https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#using

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to {product-title} as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* The {cli-manager} is installed.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} web console.

. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

> . Select the *{cli-manager}* from the list.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. From the list, select *{cli-manager}*.
```

. Select the *CLI Plugin* tab.

. Click *Create Plugin*.

> . Enter the YAML file with the information for the plugin you are installing in the text box. See the example YAML file below.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. In the text box, enter the information for the plugin you are installing. See the following example YAML file.
```

+
.Example YAML file to add a plugin

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: Plugin
metadata:
  name: <plugin_name> <1>
spec:
  description: <description_of_plugin>
  homepage: <plugin_homepage>
  platforms:
  - bin: <2>
    files:
    - from: <plugin_file_path>
      to: .
    image: <plugin_image>
    imagePullSecret: <3>
    platform: <platform> <4>
  shortDescription: <short_description_of_plugin>
  version: <version> <5>
----

> <1> The name of the plugin you will use in commands.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<1> The name of the plugin you plan to use in commands.
```

> <2> `Bin` specifies the path to the plugin executable.

Reviewer: Sounds reasonable and compatible with https://github.com/openshift/cli-manager/blob/dc93d208c9cd95606fdaaac45f93c652fef7c349/api/v1alpha1/plugin_types.go#L61-L66

<3> Optional: If the registry is not public, add a pull secret to access your plugin image.

> <4> Add the architecture for your system. Ex. `linux/amd64`, `darwin/arm64`, `windows/amd64`, or another architecture.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<4> Add the architecture for your system; for example, `linux/amd64`, `darwin/arm64`, `windows/amd64`, or another architecture.
```

<5> Version must be in v0.0.0 format.

. Click *Save*.

.Verification

> . Enter the following command to see if the plugin is listed and has been added successfully.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Enter the following command to see if the plugin is listed and has been added successfully:
```
See https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#single-step-procedures
